- [Instructor] Let's take a closer look
at a few of the most frequently used methods
on the collection interface
using some visualizations to see their behaviors.
Throughout the visualizations,
we'll assume that we're working with a collection
that has a generic type of string.
We'll start with methods that add items
into the collection.
When you want to insert an element into a collection,
you must pass an object that's type
matches the collection's generic type.
We pass this object into the add method,
which places a single element into the collection.
The add method returns a boolean
that indicates whether the collection changed
as a result of the operation.
For some implementations,
like the set that do not accept duplicates,
it's possible the element already exists in the collection.
So if we called this method a second time
on a set implementation, it wouldn't be added
and the method would return false.
We'll see this pattern in the return type,
which uses the boolean to indicate a change
in the collection on other methods as well.
Another approach is to insert multiple elements
into the collection, using the addAll method.
This method accepts a collection of elements
to be inserted as its argument.
It also uses a boolean return type
to indicate whether the collection has changed.
Methods on the collection interface
that perform operations on the entire collection
are known as bulk operations.
Most of these methods, aside from a few exceptions,
accept a collection as their argument.
Now let's take a look at how we remove elements
from a collection.
The first option is to remove an individual element
by passing a single object to the remove method.
It's return type is a boolean
that indicates if the collection has changed.
It's possible the collection will not change
if we pass an object to the method
that doesn't exist in the collection.
There is also a bulk operation
for removing multiple items from the collection.
The removeAll method accepts a collection of elements
as an argument for removal from the collection.
If we want to remove all items from the collection,
we can use another bulk operation named clear.
The final method we'll explore
for removing collection elements is retainAll.
It's a bulk operation that is sort of the inverse
of removeAll.
It accepts a collection as an argument,
then removes all elements of the target collection
that are not found within the provided collection.
Before going any further, I want to call out
that collections are mutable.
That means that each of the methods we've seen
for adding or removing items
changes the underlying collection when invoked.
We'll dive deeper into the side effects of mutability
later in the course.
Now let's move on and see a few methods
that help us inspect the collection.
We can use the contains method
to determine if a collection includes a particular element.
We just pass a single object into the method
and it returns a boolean to indicate
if it's found inside the collection.
A bulk operation also exists for checking
if an entire collection of elements
is found within the target collection.
The containsAll method accepts a collection of elements
and returns of boolean to indicate
if all elements in the provided collection
are found in the target collection.
Another method for inspecting a collection
is the isEmpty method.
As its name implies, it returns a boolean of true
if no elements are found in the collection.
In our example, the collection contains elements,
so false is returned.
The final method we'll explore, named size,
returns an integer that denotes the number of elements
in the collection.
The 10 methods we reviewed
are the most basic operations you'll use to insert,
remove, or inspect collections.
Later in the course,
we'll talk about how collections are iterated,
so you'll have a full understanding
of the collection interface.